
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Aravind Rao <aravindrao.torri@gmail.com>
Date: Mon, May 24, 2021 at 3:12 AM
Subject: Request For NIE Approval
To: <HyderabadNIE@state.gov>


Hello Sir/ Madam,



This email is to request for a waiver to Travel from India to the U.S subject to Presidential Proclamation 10199 in the category of National Interest Exception (NIE) for me.



Following are the details,



Last name:

First name:

Date of birth:

Gender (M/F): M

Country of birth: INDIA

Country of citizenship: INDIA

Passport number:

Visa Number* and Category:

Issuing Post Name : Hyderabad

Travel dates: 1st JUNE

Travel purpose and national interest category, including a clear justification for receipt of a NIE:

My Name is Aravind Rao Torri, I hold a valid non-immigrant visa H1B to work for Barclays Services LLC as a software support analyst, from the past 4 years I have been working for Barclays Services LLC. Barclays is a transatlantic consumer, corporate and investment banking, credit cards and wealth management with a strong presence in US and UK with over 325 years of history and expertise in banking, Barclays moves, lends, invests and protects money of customers and clients worldwide for year of 2017 total income was USD 30 million with profit tax of 4.9 billion.



I travelled to India a few weeks ago as my father's health was in critical condition, he is recovering well now, My U.S. employer requires my physical presence in the U.S.  asap to provide vital support for the critical infrastructure sector. The project I am primarily working on is a web application which provides an ability to the disaster affected U.S. customers to be able to enroll into payment relief programs. With the ongoing COVID 19 Pandemic I am working on a special feature in the application for U.S. Barclaycard credit card usage customers who are facing financial hardship to help them with financial relief by offering relief in the form of skip payment, late fee forgiveness, interest forgiveness and halting derogatory past due advancement for a specified period. This project also includes a tracker which provides updates to the Business team in time to time reviews and brings more such relief programs for U.S. customers in any such national disaster instances.  If I do not return immediately, it will impact processing of the payment files of the U.S.  Barclaycard credit card and loan customers who opted for the payment relief due to the current ongoing pandemic with the above options and add more financial hardship to such customers. My immediate return to U.S.  will help in on time deliverables of this critical features as I am the lead engineer, with my expertise in below

·        Deploying the financial relief code to the production environments with appropriate testing as I am the owner of the system accounts which performs the deployments.

·        Set up Monitoring, analytics for the business and production teams to get insights on performance of payment processing systems.

·        Processing of critical payment files within Internal & external payment processing systems for the eligible card holders who opted for payment relief due to financial issues because of COVID 19 pandemic.

·        Fix any broken application, payment files in quick turnaround time with my expertise to ensure no customers and business is impacted.



Apart from handling the critical payment files for Barclays U.S. customers and business to process the payments in time, it also helps U.S. customers in current COVID 19 pandemic who are facing financial issues to pay back their credit card and loan payments as this critical project provides self-enrolment feature to the eligible U.S. customers to opt- In and out for payment refile with various options I mentioned in the above.



I cannot perform the above Job duties remotely outside the U.S. due to confidential information of U.S. customers and to adhere in full compliance with regulatory requirements, Enterprise-wide risk management framework and internal policies and policy standards.



please find the attached letter from my employer attesting to the request.



Please let me know if you need any additional information.



Regards,

Aravind Rao Torri.